If you use web developments,
you kind of familiar with having
to have a actual HTML form element,
where your form lives, and
there's a button that has,
it's the submit button and kind of things.
In React Native, things are sort
of simpler and more difficult.
Simpler in that,
there is no restraints and having to
have everything inside the form element.
But more difficult is because you have to
track everything yourself with the state,
when to submit it, and everything else.
There are a bunch of inputs that
are available for React Native, and
I'm just going to go through the main
ones that I use most frequently.
TextInput is probably the most common,
most frequently used in React Native,
it is actually incredibly powerful and
you can do loads of things, but
it's similar to the input in the web.
So I've created this little example
that should have four different forms.
And, Yeah, so
this is four different forms,
all using the TextInput, But
they do different things.
So the first one we have is
just the basic TextInput.
So this is the one that you would use
most frequently, just to input some text,
so, I've got the current
value displaying here.
So what we have here,
I've used a style prop, I've used
the value, which is the current value.
I used useState for all of these,
and then we have a function for
onChangeText which sets the value.
And finally, I've used that
placeholder attribute to have a little
placeholder here if nothing is displayed.
And then we have a number input.
Basically for the number input,
I've used the same properties,
the only differences that I've used
a keyboardType, which is numeric.
Okay, so
this is what it looks like on a device.
So, for a normal input, I can just
type it in here, which is pretty nice.
For a number input,
notice that when I tap, sorry.
notice that when I tap on this input,
it actually brings up my number keyboard.
This is what you can set
using the keyboardType.
If you actually look at
React Native TextInput,
If I do keyboardType, keyboardType, yeah.
So this shows you all the different
keyboardTypes that you can have.
These work across platform and
there are some that only works on iOS and
only on Android.
Now, going back to here,
if you have, for example,
a password input or something sensitive
that the user needs to input,
usually you don't want
to actually display,
What the user inputs, so
we can obfuscate it, and
we do this using secureTextEntry=[true].
And finally,
we can have a multiline input.
So this, Oops.
I'm gonna do this again because I
forgot to show it on the screen.
And finally,
we can have a multiline input.
And you can see that,
This works with lots of lines.
And these are basically the main
TextInputs that you can have.
Now, moving on to a different component.
The picker component is
an interesting one because it
looks very different depending on
the platform that you're looking at.
So this is the same picker code, and
on the left is what I got on iOS and
on a Mac, right is what I had on Android.
And that is because that is
the default view for both platforms.
So on iOS, you kind of have this like
scroll view, which has tactical feedback.
And on Android, it's like a thing that
you press on, and it launches a module.
Now, another component that's quite
cute is the switch component,
switch is essentially a toggle button.
With some styling aside,
it looks really similar across platforms.
So let's look at an example.
So this is, I mean,
it would actually look very,
very similar if when I
launch it on my phone.
Yeah, so I just have this little
button in the middle of my screen.
And the button color is
very easily customizable.
I think switches actually weren't
the smallest components in terms of props.
So you just have, whether it's disabled,
the background color,
there's an unchanged value,
changed, and not really much else.
There are loads and
loads of other components out there which
you can explore in your own time, but
not everything is built into React Native.
So when I build applications,
I tend to rely on community and
third-party components quite a bit.
A lot of them are actually under
the React Native community organization.
This is basically a community,
it's a bunch of open source
libraries that are in the React community,
like on the React Community care.
So there's a Slack channel, and
there's a bunch of components
that sometimes people have built,
they don't have time to maintain so they
kind of hand them off to the community.
So generally,
these are all quite reliable things.
But a lot of the time, if you need
a component, you just Google for it.
For example, a date picker,
there isn't really a good date
picker solutions built in.
So you would just do
React Native date picker.
Any search words, and
then you have a bunch of options.
So these, for example, say here are two
options, That I've looked at before.
And you might wonder how you
would choose between them,
if you did have to do a date picker.
So what I usually do is I look at
the author, if it's someone that I know,
especially if it's a company,
I feel more relied.
But if it's an individual developer, the
thing to look at is how many stars it has.
And also how many forks it has
because there are some libraries that
are incredibly popular because the author
of the library is really popular.
So they'll do a tweet and
then you get a thousands of stars but
not actually many people are using it.
So having lots of forks is a good
indication that library is quite active.
The other thing I look at is, obviously
if it does the thing that I need.
So you look at the API, you look at there,
what it looks like, and
if it actually solves the thing
that you're trying to solve.
And the last thing that I look at
is when the last commit was made.
So if the last commit well, here,
this hasn't been updated in two years, but
maybe it doesn't have to, but
that's something to be wary of.
So you kind of know that if the last
commit here was two years ago,
then you'll probably not get
a lot of updates here so
you'll have to make do with
what was already there.
So there are just some considerations that
you might have to think of when you're
choosing which third-party
library to go with.